VCS Version 4.2
VM0007 REDD+ Methodology Modules

Project Description Document: PD_REDD_v1_130

Page 1 of 85

1.1  Project Background
The project is located in the central region of the country and encompasses
approximately 15,000 hectares of tropical forest. The area has been subject
to deforestation pressure from agricultural expansion and illegal logging.

1.9  Project Boundary
The project area is defined by the following geographic coordinates as
provided in Annex 1. The leakage belt extends 5 km from the project boundary.

v4.2

2.3  Carbon Pools
The following carbon pools are included in the project boundary:
Above-ground biomass, below-ground biomass, dead wood, litter,
and soil organic carbon.

Page 10 of 85

2.4 (Baseline Scenario)
The baseline scenario is the most likely land-use scenario in the absence
of the project activity. The project area consists of tropical forest that
would otherwise be converted to agricultural land. Historical deforestation
rates have been estimated at 1.2% per year based on satellite imagery
analysis covering the period 2010-2020. Without the project, carbon stocks
would continue to decline due to ongoing deforestation and forest degradation.

VM0007 Version 4.2

2.5 (Additionality)
The project is additional because it faces significant barriers to
implementation. A barrier analysis is provided in the following paragraphs.
The investment analysis demonstrates that the project is not financially
viable without carbon revenue. The common practice analysis confirms that
similar REDD+ activities are not widespread in the region.

Page 15 of 85

2.6  Deviations
No deviations from the methodology are proposed at this time.

1.10 (Leakage)
The leakage belt for this project is determined using the default 5 km
buffer approach as specified in VM0007. Activity shifting leakage is
expected to be minimal due to the limited availability of alternative
forest areas for displacement. Market leakage is not expected to be
significant given the small scale of the project relative to the regional
timber market.

3.3  Monitoring
Monitoring will be conducted annually using permanent sample plots.
A total of 75 plots are established across the project area using a
stratified random sampling design.
